---
layout: post
title: First Blog Post!
---

Data science is known to be a prestigious field and a highly sought after field. However, the barrier of entry is quite high due to the numerous and complex responsibilities placed on data scientists. Therefore, what I think it means to be a data scientist is taking any data source and weave it into a story that will allow us to make decisions in companies/corporations. A data scientist’s major duties are cleansing, preparing and analyzing various data sources to make interpretations and insights. They have strong knowledge of Python, SAS, R and various other statistical software as well as machine learning.  There are 3 main knowledge areas that data scientists draw upon: computer science, mathematics/statistics, and specific domain knowledge. Statisticians and data scientists possess similar and different qualities from each other. Both collect data in different ways. Statisticians use smaller scale methods of collecting data whereas data scientists utilize methods that collects large amounts of data. Furthermore, data scientists focus on comparing different methods to create the best model whereas statisticians homes in on a single, simple method to best fit the data. These fields do need a strong foundation in statistics to be successful in each of their respective fields. Furthermore, both strive to obtain knowledge from data. In relation to these fields, I have dabbled in both. Throughout my courses, I have learned the concepts, models and data collection methods that statisticians use, in addition to cleaning, processing and analyzing data sets. So I view myself as a being a statistician and data scientist.
